ICON GRAPHIX

LOADING   INSTRUCTIONS

Cassette Version: LOAD "G-CASSETTE" or just LOAD ""

Microdrive Version:
This version of ICON GRAPHIX allows you to set up a high-speed 
Microdrive based system. Set up yourMicrodrive#1 with a blank, formatted 
cartridge and LOAD the program G-MICRO from tape with LOAD "".  G-MICRO will 
automatically save a version of GRAPHIX on the cartridge which can then be 
quickly loaded by LOAD *"m";l;"GRAPHIX". This version will also save and load 
pictures from Microdrive.

USING ICON GRAPHIX
The screen is divided into two main regions - the drawing window in the middle 
and the option boxes around the outside. The boxes offer a selection of drawing 
tools which may be used to create a picture in the drawing window.  Whichever 
tool you're using, it can be moved about the screen horizontally, vertically or 
diagonally, using the keys

Z          X         C           V         (with KEYBOARD option)
left       down      up          right 

or via KEMPSTON joystick                   (J option)

The tool will move over anything, option box or picture, without affecting it, 
unless you actually 'touch' the screen with the tool by pressing the CAPS, SHIFT 
key (or joystick trigger).

DRAWING   TOOLS
To select any drawing tool, simply move the current one over to the box 
containing the new tool and press. The box will light up green to remind you 
which has been selected and the cursor will change into the appropriate tool.

ICON GRAPHIX starts up using the Felt Pen.

Felt Pen (Tool = pencil)
The Pen can be used to draw directly to the screen: pressing the Pen on the 
drawing window will leave a spot and moving the Pen about whilst keeping it 
pressed will leave a 'free-hand' line behind. The Pen (and also the Brush and 
Spray Tin - see later) draws in the Current Pattern, which is shown in the 
square box at the lower right of the screen. This is plain solid ink to begin 
with; different patterns can be chosen by pressing the box of any desired 
pattern
around the screen.

All drawing done with the Pen, Brush or Spray will be in that Current Pattern 
until another is selected.

The size and shape of the Felt Pen can be altered by pressing the Shapes box 
(see later).

Spray (Tool = spray tin)
The Spray acts just like the Pen except it draws a fuzzy spray blob of current 
pattern behind it when pressed. This effect is useful for things like trees, 
clouds and shading, or just plain grafitti.

Brush (Tool - paintbrush)
When you press the middle bristle of the Brush onto a region of solid Ink or 
Paper, that region will fill up with the Current Pattern. The Brush will fill up 
any continuous region, or even the whole drawing window if desired. If you fill 
a region by mistake, or in a pattern you don't want, you can put the shape back 
the way it was with UNDO (see later).

Box (Tool = pencil)
Selecting Box gives you a pencil capable of drawing accurate squares and 
rectangles. Put the pencil where you want one corner of the rectangle to be; 
then, keeping it pressed, move it across to the opposite corner. The rectangle 
is dragged out behind the pencil as long as you keep it pressed and remains 
behind when you release the press.

Circle (Tool = arrow)
This tool is like Box, above, in that you form shapes by fixing one corner, 
dragging, then releasing. However, this arrow will create circles and ellipses 
for you. The ellipse formed is always proportioned to fit inside an imaginary 
Box between the first fixed 'corner' and the current arrow position. A perfect 
circle is obtained when the imaginary Box is square.

Line (Tool - pencil)
As with Box and Circle, this tool lets you drag out a straight line behind it 
from a fixed point. This facility is useful for drawing diagonal lines, and may 
even be used to draw curves. Due to the 'lumpiness' of any screen curve, it is 
possible to form a reasonable approximation to a curve by joining together small 
line segments end to end.

Rubber (Tool - 'R' In a box)
Pressing this over any unwanted piece of drawing will rub out a bit the same 
size as the square rubber, or bigger regions can be erased by dragging the 
rubber over them. Finer-detail erasure can be achieved by selecting a small Pen 
and the white pattern, or using Magnify (see later).

Note that, unlike all the other tools, Rubber won't let you choose a new Current 
Pattern.

Push Page (Tool = crossed arrow)
Pressing the Push Page tool to the drawing window lets you move the whole 
drawing screen around underneath it. This lets you are-compose a drawing, or get 
at the bits previously hidden behind the option boxes, including the normally 
'forbidden' two lines at the bottom of the screen.

OTHER FACILITIES

UNDO
If you press this box, it will actually undo the last thing you did - it will 
restore the screen to the way it was before you touched it last, meaning you can 
undo rubbing out, drawing, boxes, circles, lines and mistakenly filled regions. 
The only thing you can't Undo is a Pushed Page. but then you can always Push it 
back.

CLS
Clears screen. This is also UNDOable, as above.

NEW  (Skull-and-crossbones box)
Clears screen, restores Current Pattern to black and re-selects Joystick or 
Keyboard, Cannot be UNDOne, so it asks you if you want to 'Really NEW' first: if 
so, press again.

PRINT (Scroll of paper box)
Pressing the Print box will send all 24 lines of your picture to the ZX Printer, 
or any printer which can be directly substituted for it e.g. the Alphacom.

SHAPES  (Tool = arrow)
When you press this option you are given a tray full of 16 different pen shapes 
to choose from, with the current shape ringed. You can either pick a new shape 
by pressing it with the arrow and then exiting by pressing OK, or keep the old 
one by pressing Undo in the tray. (Whenever you have a tray in centre screen, 
the only options available are the ones in the tray - the rest won't respond.) 
The next time you use the Pen it will draw with the new shape.

MAGNIFY   (Tool = arrow)
This lets you enlarge a piece of screen so that you can draw on it in single 
dots at a time, for extra fine detail. After pressing Magnify, position the 
arrow over the region of drawing window you want to blow up and press again. 
Each large dot on the new screen may now be set or reset by pressing it with the 
arrow. To save this new piece of picture press Magnify again.  The entire 
subsection of screen can be erased by pressing the Rubber box, but to throw away 
whatever you've done to the magnified piece, hit UNDO.

EDIT PATTERN   (Tool = pencil)
If you would like to create your own drawing or filling patterns, select any 
unwanted pattern and then press the Current Pattern box. It will appear 
Magnified in the centre screen tray with a life-size 'swatch' of pattern above 
it.  You can then alter the pattern by pressing on or off the large pattern's 
dots (as in Magnify). The 'swatch' will show how the new pattern looks normal-
sized.  To save this pattern, press OK, pressing UNDO will restore the old one.

COLOUR

Normally, any picture you draw will be shown in black Ink on white Paper To add 
colour to your picture, press the square COLOUR box-this will put you In COLOUR   
mode. Any colour you may have previously added will re-appear on the black-and-
white design. A palette of colour options appears across the top of the screen: 
there are 8 Inks (squares marked 1) and 8 Paper colours (P) available. You can 
also set Bright and Flash with the blue and yellow strip beneath the Inks and 
Papers: from left to right, the four bars allow you to set Normal, Bright, 
Flashing and Bright Flashing.

On entering COLOUR mode, you're given an arrow which can be used to select one 
of the two COLOUR tools, or the COLOUR options (see later).

The COLOUR   tools are:

PEN
when this is selected, you can use it to fill In squares of colour on top of 
your design, the Pen will fill In using the Current Colour - on entering COLOUR 
mode, the Current Pattern Box Is coloured in with the Current Colour, This can, 
of course, be changed: new
attributes can be chosen by Pressing the appropriate section of the Palette at 
the top of the screen with any COLOUR tool.

PUSH-PAGE   tool- this is used the same way as the ordinary Push Page tool, 
except in COLOUR mode it will push the colour squares around and leave the 
design where it is. This may be useful to match up colours with a design which 
has previously been Pushed around the screen.

The COLOUR   options (which you can select with any COLOUR tool) are:

CLS - restores the colours to Black on White, no Flash or Bright, if you wish to 
start colouring in again from scratch.

UNDO  - Puts back the colours after a CLS or removes the last bit of Pen 
colouring-in done.

NEW  - pressing the skull-and-crossbones symbol returns you to ordinary drawing 
mode, saving the coloured overlay of your design in memory. The colour are 
placed at the correct location next to the
design in memory so that a SAVED picture can be LOADed back later as a normal, 
coloured SCREEN $

(Note that NEW does an automatic UNDO unless you 'fix' the colours first by 
pressing the Pen box).

LOAD and SAVE
Upon pressing the Load Save box, a menu is given of the different Load/Save 
options available.

NB. a Picture is equivalent to a SCREEN $ including colour and a Document is a 
Picture plus any new Patterns you may have created.

Press the option desired - you must now enter a filename with which to SAVE or 
to LOAD. Type the filename in the space provided (Caps, lower case, numbers and 
symbols are all allowed. CAPS SHIFT Zero will rub out the last character) and 
then ENTER. You can still go back and change the Load/Save option at this point 
if you want. If the filename's no good or you decide not to Load or Save you can 
press Undo at any point to return to the main program.

Hit OK to actually do the LOAD or Save: -

CASSETTE OWNERS
Load:   Position the tape before the file you want to load - press OK then PLAY 
on the tape player.

Save:   Position the tape at an empty section - when you hit OK the program will 
ask you to 'Start Tape...' as usual,

MICRODRIVE   OWNERS
Load:   Just hit OK: If the file exists it will be loaded from drive #1.

Save:   OK saves to drive #1: remember to ERASE any old files of the same name 
first.

If at any time a Load/Save error occurs, or you break out of the program using 
any key from B to SPACE, you may re-enter the program simply be typing RUN and 
ENTER.

PROGRAMMING:    Terry Wiley
GRAPHIC DESIGN:  Ian Elliott

(c)1985 A.S.L./ICON SOFTWARE LTD.

The programs recorded on this cassette and the packaging are copyright. No 
reproduction of the programs is permitted without the written approval of

A.S.L. and Icon Software Ltd.
Published and distributed by A.S.L.
P.O. Box 88, Reading, Berks, England.
Duplicated and manufactured by Dalagenic Ltd.


