Join the Jet-Set! starring Miner Willy
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Created by Richard Hallas (Richard@hallas.demon.co.uk)

Plot:
-----

Having woken up from his deep sleep, our intrepid hero is keen to
explore the surrounding countryside. Whilst Willy would dearly love
to join the jet-set, funding the upkeep of a mansion is no mean feat,
and Willy needs more resources if he is going to hobnob with royalty.
Therefore, he buys himself a crash helmet (not that it's very effective)
and sails off to a nearby island with a central mountain. The game
starts with Willy in the palace of the mountain's royal resident.
He must collect all the valuables from inside the mountain, the
surrounding trees and gardens, and from the local town. He must also
fly through the sky, go to sea, and even take a trip to hell and back!

Background information:
-----------------------

This game was created using the truly outstanding (Software
Projects-approved) "JetSet Editor" which was written by Paul Rhodes
and published by Spectrum Electronics. This editor is much better than
the 'Softricks Mark II Jet Set Willy Editor' which has been available
for a long time on the various FTP sites. I do still have the original
tape of JetSet Editor, and thanks to the efforts of Barry Plewa, it
has now been made into a snapshot (plus TAP file with some demo rooms).
It's available in a zip archive for downloading, complete with OCRed and
corrected documentation. Sincere thanks to the author, Paul Rhodes, for
agreeing to its free distribution.

Join the Jet-Set! was intended to be very much in the style of Jet Set
Willy, with a similar atmosphere and collection of awful puns, etc.
(Sorry if some of the jokes are a bit bad, but remember I was only 14
or 15 when I thought them up!) Most of the rooms in the game are
original, but a handful of JSW rooms remain, in an edited form.

An important source of inspiration was a letter which appeared in Your
Spectrum magazine (or was in Your Sinclair by then?) - I no longer have
the magazine, so can't look it up. The letter caused much excitement
amongst my Spectrum-owning school-friends, as it contained many exciting
claims about Jet Set Willy (all of which were fictitious). As I recall,
it said that if you were standing on The Bow (of the Yacht) at 7:30pm
(I /think/ that was the time - or was it midnight?), a raft would appear
and take you to a desert island (which I think was called Crusoe Corner,
though I may have invented that name myself). You could climb a tree on
the island to reach "Tree Tops - the sequel". The letter also mentioned
an "Ice Volcano" below Hades.

Although the letter was a piece of pure invention, and none of the
things it mentioned existed in JSW, it caused a lot of excitement; and
the fact that the yacht does sail away to a desert island in JSW II
probably owes something to it, as might the fact that there's a raft
in Dynamite Dan. Anyway, I took many of the ideas in that letter and
made them reality in this game; so you really can visit the ice volcano
(has hell frozen over?) and go to that desert island.

I play-tested this game extensively all those years ago (and since
retrieving it for the emulators!), and it's definitely possible to
complete all the rooms and collect all the objects. Some rooms are very
tricky, but most are quite easy, and the game overall is probably easier
to complete than JSW itself. Have fun!

Tunes:
------

The game features a choice of ten tunes, which must be poked into memory
before the game starts. The ones I can remember are as follows:

0 - Tambourin, by Gossec
1 - Unknown
2 - If I were a rich man, from Fiddler on the Roof (original JSW tune)
3 - In the Hall of the Mountain-King, by Grieg (original Manic Miner tune)
4 - Unknown
5 - Whistle Song (original)
6 - Unknown
7 - Unknown
8 - Unknown
9 - American Patrol

Sorry I can't remember half of them! I do recognise two or three of
them, but can't put a name to them; the others may have been ones I
thought up (like number 5) or adaptations of TV themes, etc.

Guided tour of rooms (in alphabetical order):
---------------------------------------------

(*SPOILER!* If you want to 'preserve the magic' and discover all the
rooms yourself, come back and read this section later after you've spent
some time playing the game!)

'A Big HELLO from Richard Hallas!' - A very bad joke which I couldn't
resist...

'A far cry from Hades' - This tranquil, sunny and pleasant scene is far
removed from the hellish screens next to it.

'All at sea' - en route to the desert island. Watch out for the
submarine!

'Below Hades' - directly below hell, you must navigate through the
furnace to collect the flames, avoiding the evil scroll and the devil.
Note the rather nice dancing-flame effect of the conveyor belt.

'Branch' - this "branch of the tree" is a pun: you must collect the
railway train's eggs from the nest, as well as the baby engine which
is learning to fly. Branch = railway branch-line. GWR on the side of
the engine = Great Western Railways.

'Bug-Bytten' - Named for Bug-Byte software, original publishers of Manic
Miner and publishers of Stay Kool, subject of the adjacent room
(see 'Who is Luke Warm anyway?').

'Cliff walk' - walk through a secret passage to reach the cliff.

'Courtyard' - a tricky room; collect the cutlery from the battlements.

'Crusoe Corner' - the fabled, fictitious desert island from JSW.
Collect the coconuts.

'Entrance to Hades' - at last, this screen is a real part of the game.
Collect the crucifixes and avoid the evil god.

'Eugene's Lair' - an adaptation of one of my favourite caverns from
Manic Miner. The old-style toilets have been replaced by the Jet Set
Willy ones, though.

'Hades' - you can actually go there in this game! There's no special
significance to the words "Live or let die" except that they're similar
to the title of the James Bond film, and seemed appropriate to this
location.

'How on earth did you get here ?!' - Well, if JSW can have an unreachable
room in it, why can't I?

'If I were a rich man ...' - This is the name of the music from Jet Set
Willy. Collect all the money bags.

'In mid air' - Jump from aircraft to aircraft, but avoid the smutty
fumes, and don't get too close to the sun!

'Inside the trunk' - halfway up the tree. There's a subtle exclamation
mark built into the trunk, which is made out of lethal blocks, just
ready to catch you if you ascend the wrong side of the trunk...

'In the Hall of the Mountain-King' - This is the name of the music from
Manic Miner. The Mountain-King floats up the middle of the screen. The
object at the bottom-right (for the end of the game sequence) is an RH
monogram.

'Into the sky' - Watch out for the black rain-clouds! This room is
notable because it features a non-central rope. Note that there's a
bug associated with this - you get picked up by the rope as if it were
positioned in the centre of the the screen, if you try to approach it
from the right!

'Into the wide blue yonder' - leading from 'Up in the clouds' (see
entry). I /told/ you to watch out for birds! Collect the bird's eye.
(Hmm, now I wish I'd included a fish's finger!)

'Is this Pacman or Caterpiller?' - a very attractive room which requires
pixel-perfect jumping and exact timing to traverse.

'Library' - the red/yellow blocks are meant to look like rows of books.
Collect the Bible. Note the machine bouncing the ball at the bottom of
the screen - it's not possible to jump over this.

'Maria's Hideout' - A redecorated Master Bedroom

'M*E*S*H' - The title was taken from one of my favourite TV programmes,
M*A*S*H. This room is easy, except for the fact that the details are
hard to make out because you see them through a mesh. Seeing this screen
on a computer monitor makes it rather too clear; it was much harder to
make things out on a normal TV set!

'Mountain Peak' - the tip of the Mountain-King's home.

'Mules Pong' - a joke based on Donkey Kong. Jump the barrels, avoid the
flames, collect the broken heart at the top to rescue the damsel in
distress.

'My Old Flame' - This is the title of a song, here represented by the
collectable flame on top of a candle.

'Nelli Secundus' - A "Nomen Luni"-style pun on A&F Software (also known
as A'n'F), who were responsible for Chuckie Egg. The A and F letters are
built into the floor, and you have to collect the ampersand (&). Watch
out for the rolling (chuckie) egg... A&F Software used to subtitle
themselves "Nulli Secundus" - "Second to none"; hence the title of this
room.

'Off to town!' - jump the skyscrapers and collect the satellite dishes.
Be careful when entering this room from the right.

'Out on a limb' - slightly modified room from JSW.

'Outskirts of town' - this room forms a pair with 'Under the mansion',
and you must cross sets of platforms through both rooms just to get a
single object. Doing so is extremely difficult - this is probably the
most demanding object to collect in the whole game.

'Over Dover' - It's always raining over the white cliffs. Jump on the
driving rain to collect the object.

'Over the harbour' - Collect the flag from the top of the ship's mast.

'Over the ocean' - You're in fluffy white cumulus clouds, attempting to
collect a flag which has blown away. Watch out for the bird and the
raindrop, and be careful not to fall from the clouds, which are only
partially solid! If you jump left off this screen to get back to "Tree
Tops - the sequel", be *very* careful about how you do it!

'Plinth' - A "Monty Python"-inspired room, like the end-game foot from
both MM and JSW. Collect the foot, but don't allow yourself to be
stamped upon! Easier than it looks.

'Sweet dreams!' - a rather unnerving development from JSW's 'Nightmare
Room'! Note that it's not possible to exit to the left of this room.
Collect Maria's frowning eyes. Note that if you jump up from Maria's
hairpiece, you end up in 'Wigfalls'. This was supposed to be amusing.

'The Aviary' - Ascend the parrots' backs to collect the ostrich,
watching out for the other flying birds.

'The Book Tower' - named after the children's TV programme hosted by
Tom "Dr Who" Baker. The room takes the form of a castellated tower made
from Bibles. Collect the glowing books, avoiding the lethal bookworms!
The bookworms are a little tribute to Bill the Worm from Mined Out!
(Quicksilva) and Splat! (Incentive), both of which were written by
Ian Andrew.

'The Bow' - Thanks to a new pair of boots, Willy can now walk on water!
The letter in Your Spectrum mentioned that a raft would appear and take
you to a desert island at 7:30pm(?). Whilst this was not true, in this
game it is possible to reach that desert island.

'The Cess Pool' - at the bottom of the garden... This is a tricky jump,
especially from right to left. It's very easy to land right in it. Oh,
you do have to collect one rather unpleasant object!

'The Gaping Pit' - in JSW, this was the original title for the room 'We
must perform a Quirkafleeg'.

'The Garden' - jump over the plant pots to collect the flower in this
alpine garden. Watch out! Most flowers are deadly.

'The Greenhouse' - lives up to its name...

'The Ice Volcano' - A fictitious screen of this name was mentioned in
the letter in Your Spectrum. In this game, it really exists. The
ice-cubes erupting from the volcano are actually undefined guardians
from the original JSW game - I thought they looked quite suitably icy
without any editing!

'The Object Shop' - surely the most objects you've ever seen all
together in one place! An easy room, but watch out for the bird!

'The Off Licence' - modified version of the room from JSW.

'The On Licence' - compare with 'The Off Licence'. I know this joke is
awful, but I couldn't resist it; sorry!

'The Plumber is incompetent' - a joke focussed on the end-game animation
from JSW. Quite a tricky room.

'The Smithy' - named for Matthew Smith, creater of this wonderful Miner
Willy series. As he was (is!) considered a bit of a demi-god by Spectrum
games-players, the room contains a couple of 'god' guardians.

'The Terrace' - don't spend too much time trying to get the object if
you've entered the room from the left...

'The TV Room' - Collect the TV aerial, avoiding the TV sets and joystick.
I don't know who the TV presenter is, but he must be a bore!

'The wide blue yonder' - collect the "B" for "blue". This room is quite
tricky because of the combination of wide jumps which need to be timed
carefully with the firing of arrows. NB You can't cross this room from
the right; you need to enter it from 'Into the wide blue yonder'.

'The Yacht' - Willy has moored his yacht at the foot of the cliff.

'Top of the cliff' - rescue the stranded man who's reaching out for
help, and avoid the fish.

'Tree trunk' - The bottom of a three-screen-high tree, situated at the
side of the mountain.

'Tree Top' - slightly modified room from JSW.

'Tree Tops - the sequel' - As far as I can recall eleven+ years on, the
Your Spectrum letter mentioned that climbing the tree on the desert
island led to a screen called 'Tree Tops - the sequel'. So here it is.

'Under the mansion' - see entry for 'Outskirts of town'; this room is
half of a pair, with a very hard-to-reach object in it. The object is an
arrow pointing upwards, indicating the direction of the mansion.

'Up in the clouds' - you're high up in the sky. Watch out for birds...

'Use "WRITETYPER" in this room!' - a fairly unsubtle clue as to how to
turn on the cheat mode!

'WC' - an outdoor privy of no special significance.

'What shall I do with this room?' - I ran out of ideas for naming this
one! It's a moderately taxing challenge, though. Watch out for the
Microdrive cartridges!

'Who is Luke Warm anyway?' - This refers to a very obscure game called
Stay Kool, which featured a main character called Luke Warm. Stay Kool
was a mediocre platformer which was very much in the Manic Miner/JSW
style, and which was written by a friend of my best school-friend's
elder brother. Stay Kool was published by Bug-Byte (see 'Bug-Bytten').
It was never successful. I played it once in a shop, but didn't buy it.

'Wigfalls' - named after a chain of shops which, I think, no longer
exists. (As I recall, they sold DIY stuff.) In this room, you must
collect the flashing "W", whilst avoiding the falling wigs.

'[' - A tribute to the spare room in JSW.

Distribution terms:
-------------------

I release this game as freeware, since its whole purpose is to be
played and enjoyed, but I retain copyright on those parts which were
created by me. The room designs from this game form half of the rooms
in John Elliott's Jet Set Willy 128 (the other half being the original
JSW screens); anyone wishing to make use of elements of this game in
other ways (such as extracting some of the tunes, graphics, room designs
or whatever) may do so as long as they attempt to ask my permission
first. I will almost certainly grant permission; I would just like to
know what's happening to my game. Copies may be distributed freely in
an unmodified form (if you wish to make any modifications, please ask
me first). If the game is to be distributed on a medium other than an
Internet FTP site or Web page (e.g. a CD-ROM) then I would appreciate
being notified of the fact, and if a copy of the relevant publication
could be arranged, then that would be even more appreciated. The bottom
line, though, is that this is a free game. Do whatever you like with it;
but, above all, enjoy it!

Richard G. Hallas
31 Skelton Crescent
Crosland Moor
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire
HD4 5PN
Tel./Fax 01484 460280
Email Richard@hallas.demon.co.uk
