Adban De Corcy presents: "Bulgarian Requiem", for the Sinclair Spectrum.

Thanks:

To Matthew Smith, wherever you may be, writer and programmer of MM and JSW.
To Richard Hallas, for his continuous help and tips on technical problems.
To Andrew Broad, for all his support and patience.
To all the people in the "Jet Set Willy / Manic Miner" Yahoo Club.
To Paul Rhodes, for his incredibly useful "Jet Set Willy Editor".
To the Development Crew of the ZX32 Emulator, the tool I have mainly used to design this game.
To all those that enjoyed "Willy's Afterlife".
And all those of you, you know who you are.

Warning: This game contains what could be called "depiction of perverse sexual activity" in one of the rooms, as 
there's a sprite that look like "a man raping a woman using a whip to submit her", so I suppose I should warn you.  
This scene, I suppose, is NR-18. You have been warned!

The Plot: It seems that Willy finished his tour around the Afterlife, recovered all God's lost relics, and was resurrected 
as a reward for his good work. So, all was fine in Willy's life for a little while when, just two months after his 
resurrection, an odd letter arrived at his front door:

"To my dear nephew Willy:
I have been recently informed of our ties of kinship and, it would be a pleasure to invite you and your servants to a 
brief holiday at my castle, here in Bulgaria, to enforce those blood ties that should have never got snapped...

Yours sincerely, your dearest uncle: Jetza Setov Willovsky, XVIII Count of Willovsky, Bulgaria."

Bulgaria looked like an OK country, so Willy, Maria and André took their luggage, and got a flight to meet Willy's 
enigmatic uncle. But as soon as they arrived at Count Willovsky's castle, odd things began to happen..." 

Playing the Game:
 
Willy begins the game in "Count Willovsky's Pipe Organ", after his uncle has finished telling him his plans to turn him 
into a vampire. There are not many options for our hero, aren't there? "A Bulgarian Requiem" has 62 rooms and 220 
items; you are going to visit the Willovsky Castle, and some other close places.

Characters 
And here is our hero again, Willy, as the main character in a Gothic tour around a Bulgarian castle.
Maria and André don't appear in the game; they both run away as soon as the furniture began to move.

The villains:
Count Jetza Setov Willovsky: He's an ancient vampire, and he wants to incorporate Willy to the undead Willovsky 
dynasty, and add the mansion to his possessions. He tells Willy his plans, and then lets him free to ponder his fate and 
wander the castle, unable to escape.
Marina Lezcanova: Marina is the castle Housemistress, the Bulgarian reflection of Maria. She is as wicked as her alter 
ego, and she protects the gas can that Willy needs to fuel his car and run away from this horrid place.
Lady Anathema Willovskova: The first vampire wife of Count Jetza. Anathema is a necrophagus (she eats human 
corpses), and Jetza hates her. Andrei is her pawn, so the kitchens are near her bedroom.
Lady Belladonna Willovskova: Belladonna is the only one in the castle that doesn't hate Willy; she's quite decent for 
vampire standards. She is Jetza's true love, and she bore him a son before becoming undead: Matheos Willovsky, heir 
of the castle.
Lady Castratrix Willovskova: Lady Castatrix' marriage was a matter of politics, not love. She is absolutely mad (she's 
obsessed with cutting down penises and feeding them to her carnivorous plants), so Jetza moved her bedroom away 
from him.
Lady Dominatrix Willovskova: Lady Dominatrix was quite in love with Count Jetza. But he betrayed her, and told her 
that their marriage had been only a matter of political convenience. So, in spite, she hates all the inhabitants of the 
castle, except the sex slaves she keeps for perverse entertainment (whom she despises).
Lady Evilia Willovskova: Lady Evilia is the youngest of the wives, but she is also the most dangerous. She hates Willy 
with a passion, and tried by every mean on Earth to destroy him during his first days in the castle, so Count Jetza has 
forbidden her to leave her bedroom, and turned it into a cell.
Matheos Willovsky: He is Count Jetza's only heir, and the son of Belladonna. The other wives hate him, but as he is 
stronger than them, they cannot do anything. He despises Willy, and doesn't want him to become a vampire.
Andrei Lezcanov: Marina's brother, Andrei is the castle's cook, a master of vampiric and necrotic gastronomy. His rule 
over the kitchens is absolute.
Also, there's a full cast of castle guards, carnivorous plants, bats, etc…

The game music:
Both game music pieces are of my own design; they are both quite simple, but useful for the mood of the game: the 
intro music is called "Blood Sonata", and the game music is simply a pseudo-Bulgarian church song.  

Room List (In alphabetical order):
-	No spoilers in this list, just comments and notes about the rooms and their names. Go ahead, play the game, and 
then return here...
1.	A Bulgarian Requiem for Willy: All the Willovsky are here, attending to a "mass" in memoriam of Willy…  
2.	A Family Meeting: All the Willovsky are attending a meeting, to take a decision about Willy. Will you be able 
to evade their personal "touch"?
3.	Abattoir & Charnel House: "Abattoir", old-fashion (that is, my style) word for "slaughterhouse". A charnel 
house, a place where corpses were buried in the Middle Ages; in more modern usage, a place near a 
slaughterhouse used to throw away the skin, bones and blood of the slaughtered animals. 
4.	Above the Western Courtyard: Jumping over the clouds is a good idea?
5.	Ancient Catacombs under the Road: What strong foundations do these ancient roads have!
6.	Andrei's Ghoulish Kitchen: Here is the place where Andrei cooks his unhealthy meals for Lady Anathema and 
the other inhabitants of the Castle. No, the items are not t-shirts; don't ask. He throws the remains into the 
stream to the right.
7.	Atlantean Warriors unchained: Up the Main Tower, Willy finds these hostile statues of Atlantean warriors.
8.	Castle Willovsky's Back Gate:  The gas can Willy needs to escape from this hellish place on his car is here. 
Sadly, Marina Lezcanova, the housemistress, protects it. Matheos is also here, to make things more difficult.
9.	Castle Willovsky's Main Gate: a soldier blocks the main gate of the castle. Is there no hope for our hero?
10.	Cold Chimneys, Hot Chimneys: It seems that the heating system is not fully operative in Willovsky Castle. 
Which chimneys are hot, and which ones are cold?
11.	Count Willovsky Worries about Willy: And is this the traditional Bulgarian hospitality?
12.	Count Willovsky's Private Chapel: Is this a foreboding of things to come?
13.	Count Willovsky's Pipe Organ: That guy in green is Willy's uncle, Count Willovsky. And that is his mighty 
pipe organ.
14.	Crypts of the Unknown Ones: Every castle needs some tombs of unknown heroes… or fiends.
15.	Danger: Candelabra on Rampage! : It looks like Count Jetza's furniture cannot stand still…
16.	Eastern Courtyard: Beware the suits of walking armour!
17.	Feralia Genitalia/Sopor Aeternus: This room is named after the title of a song from one my favourite bands, 
"Sopor Aeternus and the Ensemble of Shadows". The lyrics begin with the words: "I found myself in a room, 
which resembled a bath. I saw my body reflected […]". Of course, these words had to be paid homage, sooner 
or later, in a JSW game. You can take a look at Sopor Aeternus' work in his official site: 
http://www.ebony-orchid.net/shadowsphere/
18.	Hall of the Iron Maidens: "Iron Maiden", a torture device used in the Middle Ages; a kind of coffin with 
spikes in the inner side, set to puncture non-vital organs only.
19.	Lady Anathema's Bedroom: The bedroom of the first vampire wife of Count Jetza, Lady Anathema 
Willovskova. The count moved her bedroom to this floor due to this lady's eating habits, which are quite… 
eccentric, to say the least.
20.	Lady Belladonna's Private Gazebo: Lady Belladonna comes to this room from time to time to take a look at 
the Willovsky lands.
21.	Lady Belladonna's Bedroom: The bedroom of the second vampire wife of Count Willovsky, Lady Belladonna 
Willovskova, addict to poisons of rare vintage. Matheos, Count Jetza's heir, is her only son.
22.	Lady Castratrix' Bedroom: Count Jetza moved Lady Castratrix far for him, just in case… Is it necessary that I 
explain Lady Castratrix' hobbies?
23.	Lady Castratrix' Garden: Lady Castratrix likes useful plants and flowers. Useful for her hobbies, that is.
24.	Lady Dominatrix' "Pleasure" Room: This is the room Lady Dominatrix uses for her infamous orgies…
25.	Lady Dominatrix' Bedroom: Quite close to the "Pleasure" room, of course.
26.	Lady Dominatrix' Private Library: Lady Dominatrix is not much of a reader, so this room is infested with rats.
27.	Lady Evilia's Access Corridor: her husband forbids Lady Evilia to leave her bedroom (which is isolated from 
the rest of the castle). This is the only path…
28.	Lady Evilia's Bedroom & Cell: Lady Evilia sits in her cell, unable to move around the castle without her 
husband's permission.
29.	Lord Willovsky's Bedroom: The bedroom of Count Jetza Setov Willovsky, quite close to his pipe organ.
30.	Main Staircase: A dangerously quiet room.
31.	Matheos' Private Observatory: Matheos uses this room to gaze at the stars.
32.	Matheos's Bedroom: The bedroom of Matheos. Any questions?
33.	Necrophagia / The Lady's Feast: "Necrophagia", Greek for "eating the dead". This habit was the reason Count 
Jetza moved Lady Anathema far away from him. He's a vampire, yes, but even the undead find some things 
disgusting… The relics, of course, are skulls in plates.
34.	Quarters of the Castle Guard: The headquarters of the soldiers of Count Jetza.
35.	Second Landing / Main Staircase: Any questions?
36.	The Armoury: The coat of arms of Count Jetza, when he was still a defender of the faith, was a cross in an 
empty field.
37.	The Bottom of the Well: Uh… that's it, the bottom of the well.
38.	The Eastern Ramparts: The Eastern Ramparts of Castle Willovsky.
39.	The Entertainments of the Damned: Jetza Setov and Lady Belladonna dance to the tune of a Bulgarian song.
40.	The Freezing Conservatory: Are those things ice gargoyles?
41.	The Funeral Chapel: The main chapel of the castle, located in the basements as a protection against the rays of 
the sun.
42.	The Guardian Gargoyles: Gargoyles were thought in the middle Ages to be guardians of the churches and 
buildings they were built on. Here it seems that they are guarding something from Willy...
43.	The Main Hall: Are you ready to confront Castle Willovsky?
44.	The Obstructed Well: A classical medieval trick to force the peasants to pay the lord for the water.
45.	The Statuary Gallery: Admire the statues of Jetza Willovsky, his wife Belladonna, and Matheos Willovsky.
46.	The Tower watches for Itself! : Willy discovers horrified that the main tower of Willovsky Castle is alive, and 
that its eyes are looking at him in a menacing way!
47.	The Willovsky Family Vault: The place where Count Jetza keeps his ill-gotten riches.
48.	The Willovsky Village Town square: A church, a little house, the village priest and a farmer. Don't you love 
rural life? 
49.	Third Landing / Main Staircase: The Main Staircase only lets you full access to the first three floors of Castle 
Willovsky. Don't linger here too long!
50.	Trophies on Display: This is the room where Count Willovsky displays the heads of the animals he hunts…
51.	Under the Bulgarian Moon: Out in the roof of the castle, under the moonlight… 
52.	Under the sign of Sagittarius: What has happened to Willy? What an odd change, it must be something in the 
air!
53.	Under the Willovsky Bridge: It seems that the old moat has some leaks.
54.	Well into the Well: An old and infamous word play. 
55.	Western Courtyard: Count Jetza uses some radical methods to control crime.
56.	What a strange bunch of cooks! : Andrei, master of necrotic cooking, is here with a bunch of friends.
57.	What are these coffins for? : Willy wonders what business has his uncle with so many coffins…
58.	Willy's Bedroom (Guest Bedroom): This is the bedroom Count Jetza Setov Willovsky assigned Willy the day 
of his arrival.
59.	Ye Olde Willovsky Bridge: Nobody has dared enter Castle Willovsky since many years ago.
60.	Ye Olde Willovsky Forest: Willy left his car in this forest. Is it still there to run away? 
61.	Ye Olde Willovsky Road: Anybody doubts that everything here belongs to the Willovsky family?
62.	Ye Olde Willovsky Well: The place to go if you need water in the castle.

Last words:
This game is released as freeware, but I retain the rights to the graphics and the intro music, so even if I would be 
flattered of you using any guardians, pictures, etc. in your own games, I would like to be informed about anything 
anyone would like to do with these elements.

If you want to use "Bulgarian Requiem" in any project (i.e. JSW for PC, etc.) feel free to do so, but please drop me a 
line firstly.

You can contact me at:

Fabián Álvarez, aka Adban De Corcy:

Adban@wanadoo.es
