The Rooms in Jet Set Willy: The Lord Of The Rings
=================================================

Each Jet Set Willy room corresponds to a chapter in The Lord of the Rings, plus there is a bonus room. This section contains a detailed description of each room in JSW:LOTR. It is ordered by the chapters in LOTR, _not_ by JSW room numbers. The description is based on the /hard/ version (LORDRING.TAP), not the easy version (LOR-LITE.TAP, which has been made considerably easier and has had the quirky features taken out).

The Lord of the Rings is divided into three parts: The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King. Each part is further subdivided into two books.


The Fellowship Of The Ring
--------------------------

The Fellowship of the Ring follows the first part of the journey of Frodo Baggins and his eight accomplices: fellow hobbits Samwise Gamgee (Sam), Peregrin Took (Pippin) and Meriadoc Brandybuck (Merry), plus Aragorn the man (heir to the throne of Gondor), Gandalf the wizard, Legolas the elf, Gimli the dwarf and Boromir the other man.

Book I follows the journey of Frodo, Sam and Pippin from Frodo's home in the Shire to Rivendell. They are joined by Merry at the border of the Shire, and by Aragorn in Bree. Their journey is unexpectedly perilous as they are pursued by nine Black Riders. These are the Nazgûl (Ringwraiths), the main servants of Sauron. One of them stabs Frodo with an evil knife, in order to subdue him to the dark side of the force(!), but Frodo reaches Rivendell just in time for Elrond to heal him.

Book II follows the journey of Frodo from Rivendell in the company of the Fellowship of the Ring (Frodo, Sam, Pippin, Merry, Gandalf, Aragorn, Boromir, Legolas and Gimli - nine walkers against the nine Black Riders of Mordor). They journey south, and are forced to pass through the Mines of Moria, where Gandalf falls into an abyss with a Balrog. The other eight Fellows escape from Moria, and pass through the Elvish land of Lórien, where they meet the lady Galadriel (who bears one of the Three Rings for the Elves). Upon leaving Lórien, the company travel down the River Anduin, and so come to the Falls of Rauros, where it becomes necessary for them to decide whether to go west towards Minas Tirith (the capital of Gondor), or to turn east and make directly for Mordor. The Fellowship divides between these two courses, as related in The Two Towers.


BOOK I, CHAPTER 1: "A Long-expected Party". In a parody of the first chapter/room of The Hobbit, you begin at Bag End, during an even wilder party to mark the joint birthday of Bilbo Baggins (played by Miner Willy - Bilbo is the white one) and his nephew Frodo (played by Jet Set Willy). The place is chock-full of partying hobbits (graphics ripped from Manic Miner and Jet Set Willy II), and you have to collect the treasure that Bilbo stashed here at the end of The Hobbit! After the party, Bilbo retired to Rivendell, and was never seen in the Shire again.

BOOK I, CHAPTER 2: "The Shadow of the Past". Seventeen years later, Gandalf visits Frodo and tells him the truth about the Ring, Sauron and everything, and Frodo realises he must leave with the Ring. In this awkward room, you have to pick up the Ring after some very tricky jumps over fire and Gandalf, implemented here as a horizontal guardian hovering four pixels above the ground. If you can make it back without losing a life, give yourself a pat on the back! :-)

BOOK I, CHAPTER 3: "Three is Company". Frodo leaves Bag End, in the company of Sam (who helpfully collects one of the items for you!) and Pippin, on the pretext of going to live in Buckland (which is near the border of the Shire - good for slipping out quietly). You encounter two Black Riders on the road, from whom you must hide to prevent their catching you!

BOOK I, CHAPTER 4: "A Short Cut to Mushrooms". Frodo continues his journey to Buckland with Sam and Pippin, and they come to the farm of Farmer Maggot, who is renowned for his mushrooms and nasty vicious dogs!

BOOK I, CHAPTER 5: "A Conspiracy Unmasked". Frodo, Sam and Pippin arrive in Buckland. You must cross the Brandywine River (by jumping across lily-pads), and so in time come to the house that Frodo bought in Crickhollow, where Merry is waiting for you. It is there revealed that Sam, Pippin and Merry know the truth about Frodo's journey (Sam was eavesdropping in Chapter 2), and conspire to accompany him out of the Shire.

BOOK I, CHAPTER 6: "The Old Forest". You leave the Shire through a hedge in Crickhollow, which leads into the Old Forest. This is a tricky room, full of traps for the unwary, namely the vertical screen wraparound, some difficult jumps through floor-ramps which can easily lead to a multi-death scenario (at least it's very early in the game! ;-) ), a jump through an innocent-looking block, a sticky conveyor (I have kindly put an arrow to come and kill you if you get stuck on that), and an awkward jump over Old Man Willow (from further back than you might think possible) to get to Tom Bombadil's house.

BOOK I, CHAPTER 7: "In the House of Tom Bombadil". A 'safe' haven, where Tom Bombadil, the powerful but kind and gentle Maia who owns this neck of the woods, lives with his girlfriend Goldberry (played by Kari Krišníková - she of We Pretty fame). Another innocent-looking block for you to jump through, and another sticky conveyor. It will not avail you to jump out of the upstairs windows! ;-)

BOOK I, CHAPTER 8: "Fog on the Barrow-downs". To leave the land of Tom Bombadil, you must pass through a barrow, avoiding the deathly barrow-wight and collecting the jewellry of the dead.

BOOK I, CHAPTER 9: "At the Sign of The Prancing Pony". You arrive in Bree and stay at an inn called The Prancing Pony, owned by one Barliman Butterbur - the jolly fat man dancing on the table (an 'off' conveyor). You are to sleep downstairs (for fear of an attack of the Black Riders), which requires another jump through an innocent-looking block. Do NOT go upstairs!

BOOK I, CHAPTER 10: "Strider". You find a stranger waiting for you in your room in the basement. He goes by the name of Strider, but actually turns out to be Aragorn, heir of the throne of Gondor and bearer of the Sword That Was Broken. There's a letter from Gandalf to collect, explaining Strider's identity and advising you to make for Rivendell with him.

BOOK I, CHAPTER 11: "A Knife in the Dark". You pass Weathertop on your way to Rivendell - climb it and collect the rune of Gandalf. In the book, Frodo is stabbed by the leader of the Black Riders in a dell under Weathertop, but obviously you should try to avoid that in the JSW game. The cyan knife in the shape of a cross symbolises analogies with the stabbing of Monica Seles and the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. A horrible room, swarming with Black Riders, but it's nothing compared to...

BOOK I, CHAPTER 12: "Flight to the Ford". To make it to Rivendell, you must cross the Ford of Rivendell. The Black Riders will try to cut you off at the ford, hoping that the knife-wound will subdue you to their will. Dodging them requires frame-perfect timing and pixel-perfect movement - the pause key is an invaluable aid to this! :-) Watch out for the invisible static nasties, and another innocent-looking block. While it was not possible to be as faithful to the book as I would have liked (the Black Riders are washed away in a flood commanded by Elrond when they try to cross the ford), I think that this room and the previous room are just as fearsome as their corresponding chapters in the book! :-)


BOOK II, CHAPTER 1: "Many Meetings". This room lives up to its name, I think - watch out for the elf when you enter from the left! You are in the left half of the House of Elrond in Rivendell - meet Gandalf and Sam by your bedside (you have to fetch a rather awkwardly-placed item (a piece of mithril mail) from there - beware the pillow, a sticky conveyor). Meet also Merry and Pippin; and Bilbo when you enter from the bottom-right - don't make the reunion too intimate! ;-)

BOOK II, CHAPTER 2: "The Council of Elrond". Frodo meets with Aragorn, Gandalf, Legolas, Boromir, Gimli and Elrond to tell their respective tales and debate what should be done with the Ring. In the end, Frodo agrees to take the Ring to Mordor and destroy it in the only way possible, by casting it into the fires in Mount Doom. Set in the right half of Elrond's house, the objective of this room is for Frodo to jump across the other councillors and collect the Sword That Was Broken - not really faithful to the book, but makes for an interesting JSW room. It is safe to fall down after doing so, because there's an invisible floor there. It is also possible to exit at the bottom-left of this room by walking along the bottom platform, in order to complete the previous room.

BOOK II, CHAPTER 3: "The Ring Goes South". The Company of the Ring leaves Rivendell: Frodo, Sam, Pippin, Merry, Gandalf, Aragorn, Boromir, Legolas and Gimli. They first try to go /over/ the Misty Mountains via the Redhorn Gate, but it is blocked by snow (think block...). So they decide to go through the Mines of Moria instead, but must first solve a lateral-thinking puzzle to gain access to Moria (in the book, it was a door protected by a password; in the game, it's a puzzle of a JSW kind). First you must climb up the snowy mountain, avoiding your milling companions - this requires nimble fingers and a lot of practice! :-)

BOOK II, CHAPTER 4: "A Journey in the Dark". Watch out for an immediate shock with arrows!! This chapter relates the relatively eventless first part of the company's journey through Moria. I could have taken the title literally, and made it as dark as "Not at Home" in The Hobbit, but that would have been extremely unfair of me, because then you wouldn't have been able to see the holes through which you can fall to your doom! :->

BOOK II, CHAPTER 5: "The Bridge of Khazad-dûm". In which the company escape from Moria, but only after an attack by orcs and a Balrog. Gandalf fights the Balrog on the bridge of Khazad-dûm, and they both fall into an abyss. Don't fall into the abyss yourself, or you'll fall forever! Jump over the broken bridge and escape (the right section of the bridge is a left conveyor). This is a very tricky manoeuvre, because it requires excellent timing with the Balrog and the orcs, a pixel-perfect jump over the green orc, and it's all too easy to fall into the abyss when trying to jump the last gap with the green orc hot on your heels!

BOOK II, CHAPTER 6: "Lothlórien". Having escaped from Moria, the company reach the land of Lórien, still grieving for the loss of Gandalf. Traverse the Golden Wood via the treetops, and watch out for those speedy elves! To get to the bottom-right of this room, jump left from the very edge of the room to the right...

BOOK II, CHAPTER 7: "The Mirror of Galadriel". Frodo and Sam meet Lady Galadriel of the Golden Wood, a wise and fair Elvish lady, of whom there are many terrible (but ill-founded) rumours. She can see right through anybody, and she owns a mirror which shows the future to anyone who looks in it (do not touch the water). In this adaptation of The Lord of the Rings, Galadriel is played by Kari Krišníková - she'll clip you if you try to walk under her! :-) Do not <walk< back into the room to the left.

BOOK II, CHAPTER 8: "Farewell to Lórien". The company leaves the land of Lórien with fond adieu, but this is actually one of the deadliest rooms in the game as you jump from tree to tree, avoiding the elves, to get safely down to the river. The jumps over the elves are very difficult to time, and if you fall down, the impact with the water in the room below will kill you indefinitely.

BOOK II, CHAPTER 9: "The Great River". You must negotiate your way down the rapids of the River Anduin. Beware of getting swept away by the invisible currents! Watch out for arrows from orcs on the east bank, especially when reentering the room from left to right through the portage-way. You need to find the correct diagonal line to avoid being dashed to pieces on the rocks at the bottom; this takes some jumping around.

BOOK II, CHAPTER 10: "The Breaking of the Fellowship". This is where the company must decide whether to go west towards Minas Tirith, east to Mordor, or divide. Frodo goes off to contemplate this crucial decision in solitude; he climbs the hill of Amon Hen, which gives him an excellent view of what's going on all over Middle-earth! However, he is attacked by Boromir, who wants to take the Ring for himself and go to Minas Tirith. As the player, you have to decide whether to go left now, or whether to turn right and make for Mordor immediately. If you make the wrong choice, the quest will be irreversibly doomed to failure. I'm not going to make the choice for you, but don't blindly follow what Frodo did in the book, because just as the narrative divides at this point in the book, you will play characters other than Frodo as appropriate after this point in the game.


The Two Towers
--------------

The Two Towers relates the fortunes of the Fellows of the Ring after the breaking of the Fellowship. The two towers of the title are the tower of Orthanc in Isengard (where the traitor Saruman lives - a wizard who has turned to evil and now wishes to take the Ring for himself, to overthrow Sauron and rule in his stead) and the city of Minas Morgul on the border of Mordor. In the Two Towers, the narrative divides to follow the respective fortunes of the Fellows of the Ring as they split up, and you get to play as different characters.

Book III follows those Fellows who go west towards Minas Tirith. As Frodo and Sam are setting off east towards Mordor, the rest of the company is attacked by orcs. The orcs capture Pippin and Merry, and kill Boromir. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli (the Three Hunters) decide to pursue the orcs in a bid to rescue the hobbits. The narrative thus further subdivides. The orcs are taking Pippin and Merry to Isengard - via Rohan - because Saruman thinks that one of them might have the Ring. However, the orcs are attacked and destroyed by the Riders of Rohan, and the hobbits escape into Fangorn Forest. There they meet the ent, Treebeard, and the wrath of the ents is aroused against Saruman. Meanwhile, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli meet Gandalf, who has risen from the dead and is now Gandalf the White. They pay a visit to King Théoden of Rohan, and Gandalf encourages him to fight against Saruman. The army of Rohan defeats Saruman's orcs in a battle at Helm's Deep, and then Gandalf, Théoden, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli proceed to Isengard to confront Saruman himself. They find that the ents have trashed Isengard, and meet Pippin and Merry in the ruins. Saruman locks himself in Orthanc, and after attempts to negotiate with him, Gandalf demotes Saruman from his wizardly status. Saruman's servant Wormtongue throws a crystal ball out of the tower, which turns out to be a palantír - a device which Saruman used to communicate with Sauron. Pippin looks into the palantír and Sauron believes /him/ to be the Ring-bearer - an opportunity which is crucial to the plot in that it distracts Sauron's attention from Frodo, causing Sauron not to anticipate Frodo's attempt to destroy the Ring (the very idea of which is inconceivable to Sauron - to his mind, the only threat is that someone will take the Ring themself and use it to overthrow him and rule in his stead as Dark Lord).

Book IV follows Frodo and Sam as they journey east towards Mordor to get the Ring destroyed. They catch Gollum following them, and make him promise to help them. Gollum leads them through the Dead Marshes, but when they reach the gates of Mordor, they realise that to enter that way would be suicide. Gollum suggests the pass of Cirith Ungol as an alternative. They reach Cirith Ungol after a long journey south, but Gollum betrays them to Shelob the giant spider. Shelob poisons Frodo, Sam thinks he's dead and takes the Ring from him, but Sam learns that Frodo is still alive when Frodo is captured by orcs.


BOOK III, CHAPTER 1: "The Departure of Boromir". You play as Aragorn in this room. The orcs of Saruman have riddled Boromir with arrows. With his dying words, Boromir tells you that the orcs have taken Pippin and Merry. After a brief funeral, you must pursue the orcs, together with Legolas and Gimli, the Three Hunters. The orcs have all left the scene already - or have they?

BOOK III, CHAPTER 2: "The Riders of Rohan". Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli, in their pursuit of the orcs (who have gained an excellent head start), meet the Riders of Rohan. You must decide whether to go left from this room and follow the fortunes of Pippin and Merry in Chapter 3, or stay with Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli by going up (Chapter 5). Whichever you choose now, you must come back later and take the other course, in order to collect all the items. The item to collect in this room is the brooch of Pippin, which he discarded as a sign to you. Making your way to the exit at the top of the screen is one of the most difficult challenges in the entire game - one for the adroit among you... (Tip: do NOT jump when you land on the ramp at the top-right - walk straight up into the room above, and then stop immediately.)

BOOK III, CHAPTER 3: "The Uruk-hai". This chapter follows the fortunes of Pippin (as whom you play in this room) and Merry, after their capture by the orcs. Saruman's orcs are taking Pippin and Merry over the countryside of Rohan to Isengard because Saruman thinks /they/ might have the Ring. However, the orcs are attacked by the Riders of Rohan, who destroy them in battle and the hobbits escape into Fangorn Forest. Somewhat reminiscent of "The Forgotten Abbey" in the original Jet Set Willy, this room entails awkward jumps over the orcs, although the conveyor actually helps you to get it right. If you jump over the fire at the bottom-left a frame too soon, you actually land *inside* the wall!! This is one of the esoteric quirks of the JSW game engine, but quite fatal here! :-> The ramp-floor blocks also add to the difficulty, and if you manage to collect the lembas and escape without losing a life, give yourself a pat on the back! :-)

BOOK III, CHAPTER 4: "Treebeard". Pippin and Merry meet Treebeard the ent in Fangorn Forest. On hearing their story, the ents' wrath against Saruman is aroused, and they storm Isengard - to the left of this room is "The Road to Isengard" (Chapter 8). Collect the jars of ent-draught to keep you "green and growing" - the ones on the left may look impossible to reach, but are easily accessible courtesy of another quirk in the JSW game engine; watch out for the sticky conveyor and the arrows when you attempt to collect the ones at the top-right!

BOOK III, CHAPTER 5: "The White Rider". In this chapter, the narrative returns to Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli; the room has to be reached by going up from "The Riders of Rohan" (Chapter 2), and quite a wide peregrination is required to return to that room if you went left from there first. Anyway, the Three Hunters encounter an old wizard dressed in white. They take him to be Saruman (formerly Saruman the White, now the self-styled Saruman of Many Colours), but he actually turns out to be Gandalf, who fell in Khazad-dûm as Gandalf the Grey but now is risen as Gandalf the White. It is, in fact, possible to bypass this joyous (but somewhat hazardous, as Gandalf strides four pixels above the platform) reunion by walking right through the wall when you enter this room, but you'll miss out on the items if you do. ;-) (Hint: you need to jump left from inside that wall to reach the items.)

BOOK III, CHAPTER 6: "The King of the Golden Hall". Gandalf (as whom you play in this room) leads Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli to Meduseld to see King Théoden of Rohan. Gandalf persuades Théoden to fight against Saruman, and exposes his councillor Gríma Wormtongue as a traitor who is in league with Saruman. It's a meridian screen: to go left, you need to jump up off the top of the screen - don't land in the hill or you will die infinitely! :->

BOOK III, CHAPTER 7: "Helm's Deep". A battle between Théoden's army (plus Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli) and the orcs of Saruman takes place at Helm's Deep. You play as Gimli in this one. The arrows are particularly deadly in this room, and if you stay too long, an arrow will kill Legolas and cost you a life (because arrows collide with white-ink pixels - you can hide from them yourself by standing in floor blocks).

BOOK III, CHAPTER 8: "The Road to Isengard". When you enter this room from the right, you need to move left immediately to avoid being killed repeatedly by the static nasties. Gandalf, Théoden, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli travel to Isengard, where they find Saruman's fortress in ruins after the attack of the ents. They also find Pippin and Merry, keeping guard as it were. The hand is the White Hand of Saruman. It's very tricky to reach your ultimate destination of the tower of Orthanc (left of this room), because the path is chock-full of clever tricks, and good timing is needed to pass the guardians at the end. First, however, you need to visit the room below - accessible via innocent-looking blocks. Oh, and going right from this room takes you (back) to "The Uruk-hai" (Chapter 3), which you need to visit if you went up from "The Riders of Rohan" initially - you are advised to jump the static nasty from as close as possible without clipping it on the rise.

BOOK III, CHAPTER 9: "Flotsam and Jetsam". You play as Merry inside Saruman's flooded fortress. Avoid the 'flotsam' and collect the 'jetsam'.

BOOK III, CHAPTER 10: "The Voice of Saruman". Gandalf confronts Saruman in his tower, trying to persuade him to come out and repent. However, Saruman refuses, and Gandalf breaks his staff and expels him from the council of wizards. In the book, Gríma Wormtongue throws the palantír of Orthanc out of the tower, but in the game you have to go up and collect it. The fact that Saruman is represented by the same graphics as Gandalf, but in cyan rather than white, is a reference to the good/evil colour symbolism in We Pretty.

BOOK III, CHAPTER 11: "The Palantír". On the night following the parley with Saruman, Pippin looks into the palantír and finds himself face to face with Sauron! Gandalf then takes Pippin to Minas Tirith (Book V, Chapter 1 - go right). Go down to follow the fortunes of the rest of the company (Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli and Merry) in Chapter 2 of Book V. Entering the palantír teleports you back to "The Breaking of the Fellowship" (Book II, Chapter 10), which you need to do to follow Frodo and Sam's journey to Mordor (Book IV), and to get back to "The Riders of Rohan" in order to go up if you went left from there initially. The teleport is implemented using John Elliott's teleporter extension.


BOOK IV, CHAPTER 1: "The Taming of Sméagol". Frodo and Sam are navigating the dangerous terrain of the Emyn Muil on their way to Mordor. You need to use the technique of jumping through an overhead wall-block from right to left, and use the non-moving rope (this effect is achieved by having two ropes in the room) to get down the steep cliff. They encounter Gollum (aka Sméagol), who has been following them since Moria, but catch him and make him promise to "serve the master of the Precious [i.e. the Ring]". The hobbits journey on, with Gollum as their guide.

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 2: "The Passage of the Marshes". Gollum guides Frodo and Sam through the Dead Marshes, which are full of the faces of dead warriors. Avoid the winged Nazgûl (the Black Riders, now riding pterodactyl-like steeds). A very difficult room to cross.

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 3: "The Black Gate is Closed". Frodo, Sam and Gollum come to the main gate at the northwest of Mordor. However, they realise that they cannot enter this way, and there's nothing for it but to journey south (via an innocent-looking block) and attempt to sneak in via the pass of Cirith Ungol.

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 4: "Of Herbs and Stewed Rabbit". Frodo, Sam and Gollum are making their way south through Ithilien, and the surroundings have a pleasant dryad atmosphere. Frodo goes to sleep and Sam (as whom you play in this room) has Gollum catch some rabbits (the items) for him to cook. The fire attracts the attention of Faramir (brother of Boromir), who detains Frodo and Sam for questioning. An attractive room, which is chock-full of many of the tricks I know - it will fool you in many ways if you're not an expert in JSW mechanics! ;-)

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 5: "The Window on the West". Faramir takes Frodo and Sam to his mega-secret hideout at Henneth Annún (blindfolding them for the last mile of the journey). The most striking feature of the hideout is a window of water facing west. The real reason for this chapter's title, in my interpretation, is that it is Frodo and Sam's only link with the company that they left behind at the breaking of the Fellowship. Frodo and Sam learn of the death of Boromir, and Faramir learns of the fall of Gandalf in Moria. They reveal their quest to Faramir; luckily he turns out to be trustworthy. Watch out for the hidden ramp!

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 6: "The Forbidden Pool". Faramir catches Gollum, who has followed them, fishing in a pool by his hideout. Faramir wants to kill Gollum (to protect the secrecy of the hideout), but Frodo persuades him otherwise and rescues Gollum. The lower arrow is harmless because you don't have white ink while underwater. You have to be correctly aligned to exit the pool.

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 7: "Journey to the Cross-roads". Faramir sends Frodo and Sam on their way, giving them a supply of food. They journey through the sombre forest of Ithilien, and come to the crossroads (north back to the Morannon, south to Harad, west to Osgiliath and east - the road you are to take - to Minas Morgul). Watch your step carefully in this room, or you could be forced to concede a life.

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 8: "The Stairs of Cirith Ungol". Frodo, Sam and Gollum come to Minas Morgul, the city of the Ringwraiths. You must avoid the city itself - do not even set foot on the bridge, because once you start down that dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny! :-) Instead, you must negotiate the 'straight stair' and the 'winding stair' to get to the 'tunnel'... Watch out - static nasties look the same as walls in this room! :->

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 9: "Shelob's Lair". The tunnel Gollum spoke of turns out to be the lair of Shelob the giant spider! He has lead them in there in the hope that Shelob will kill them and he can take the Ring. First you must give Shelob the slip, and then find a way through her web to escape - not easy because I've crammed in an array of my favourite tricks! :-)

BOOK IV, CHAPTER 10: "The Choices of Master Samwise". Sam escapes from Shelob's lair, but she has caught Frodo, bound him in cobweb, and is about to eat him! Sam bravely fights her off, but Frodo appears to be dead. Sam takes the Ring and the Phial of Galadriel from Frodo, thinking that he must continue the quest alone. However, Frodo is captured by orcs, who say that he is merely unconscious from the spider-venom. The floor blocks behave as ramps in this room, and to get past the first pair of static nasties you encounter it is necessary to jump back into Shelob's Lair - this can result in a multiple-death scenario if you do so at too low a level! :->


The Return Of The King
----------------------

The Return Of The King tells the story of the War of the Ring and the conclusion of the Ring-bearer's quest. The title refers to Aragorn, who goes on to be crowned King of Gondor (the country had been ruled by Stewards for centuries, following the end of the previous line of Kings). Again, the narrative is divided and you get to play as different characters.

Book V continues where Book III left off. Gandalf takes Pippin to Minas Tirith, where they meet Denethor, Steward of Gondor and father of Boromir and Faramir. Merry rides to war with Théoden, and Aragorn takes the Paths of the Dead with Legolas and Gimli. Minas Tirith is besieged by the forces of Mordor, then the others converge on the Pelennor Fields, where there is a great battle which sees the death of Théoden and the end of the Lord of the Nazgûl. Denethor, corrupted by the evil influence of Sauron, despairs and commits suicide. These events attract the full attention of Sauron, who is oblivious to the quest to destroy the Ring. In order to further distract Sauron, the army of Gondor rides to the gates of Mordor to challenge him.

Meanwhile in Book VI, Sam rescues Frodo from the tower of Cirith Ungol. They enter Mordor, and so come in time to Mount Doom, where Frodo is supposed to cast the Ring into the fire. He is unable to bring himself to do so, but the Ring is destroyed when Gollum bites it off Frodo's finger and falls into the fire with it. Sauron and the eight remaining Nazgûl perish when the Ring is unmade, but Frodo and Sam are rescued from Mordor by eagles. They are honoured on the Field of Cormallen, and Aragorn is crowned King of Gondor. When the hobbits return home, they find that Saruman has taken over the Shire, but they defeat him and Wormtongue murders him. Weary of Middle-earth after all his tribulations, Frodo sails to the Undying Lands along with Gandalf, Elrond, Galadriel (bearers of the Three Rings for the Elves) and Bilbo.


BOOK V, CHAPTER 1: "Minas Tirith". Gandalf arrives at Minas Tirith with Pippin (you play as Pippin). The city has seven layers, each with a wall and a door, and I've tried to realise this as faithfully as I can in my JSW room. You must find the hidden ways toward the top of the fortress, where you will find food (it is possible to collect all of the food with only one climb of the fortress). In the book, Pippin swears fealty and service to Denethor, Steward of Gondor (and father of Boromir and Faramir).

BOOK V, CHAPTER 2: "The Passing of the Grey Company". This chapter relates the fortunes of those whom Gandalf and Pippin left behind when they rode to Minas Tirith. Merry swears service to Théoden, and rides with him to Dunharrow (take the exit on the upper right of the screen). Aragorn (as whom you play in this room) takes the Paths of the Dead (the bottom of the screen) with Gimli and Legolas, for time is short and he must summon the spirits of the Dead to fight against Mordor. The Paths of the Dead is one of the most terrifying places in Middle-earth, and requires excellent timing to pass!

BOOK V, CHAPTER 3: "The Muster of Rohan". Théoden musters the riders of Rohan for to ride to the aid of Minas Tirith, which is under siege. Merry and Éowyn (Théoden's niece, a shield-maiden of Rohan) are forbidden to come, but Éowyn disguises herself as a rider called Dernhelm, and takes Merry (as whom you play in this room) with her. The Paths of the Dead continue at the bottom of the room (even though they belong to the previous chapter). The strange 'T' symbols are my own artistic licence: I associate them with Thomas Muster! :-)

BOOK V, CHAPTER 4: "The Siege of Gondor". Minas Tirith, the capital of Gondor, is under siege from the forces of Mordor; the Nazgûl are circling the city on their winged steeds. You (Pippin) can fall down to the right-hand side of the screen without dying if you jump so as to land inside the top wall block. Faramir is gravely wounded by an evil dart from the Nazgûl, and is in a fever (the bright-on-dull yellow guardian is Faramir). Denethor, mad with despair, prepares a funeral pyre for both himself and Faramir. At the end of the chapter, in rides the Lord of the Nazgûl, but the riders of Rohan arrive in the nick of time.

BOOK V, CHAPTER 5: "The Ride of the Rohirrim". The Riders of Rohan ride to the aid of Gondor and to the battle of the Pelennor Fields (above, next chapter). They are led through Drúadan Forest by the Woses (Wild Men of the Woods). You play as Merry. At the bottom of the screen, Aragorn emerges from the Paths of the Dead, and reaches the rock at Erech (again, this really belongs to Chapter 2).

BOOK V, CHAPTER 6: "The Battle of the Pelennor Fields". One of my favourite chapters of The Lord of the Rings, in which the riders of Rohan reach the Pelennor Fields outside Minas Tirith, and defeat the forces of Mordor that besiege the city. Théoden is slain by the Lord of the Nazgûl, but, in a hair-raising encounter, the Lord of the Nazgûl is slain in turn by Éowyn (with a little help from Merry, as whom you play. Éowyn is played by Kari Krišníková). Théoden's death means that Éomer (his nephew and Éowyn's brother) is now King of Rohan. Black boats arrive from the South, which everyone believes to be reinforcements for Mordor, but it turns out to be Aragorn and his army. A very tricky room to cross (which you have to do in both directions) because it's swarming with horizontal guardians in a manner reminiscent of "The Forgotten Abbey" in the original Jet Set Willy.

BOOK V, CHAPTER 7: "The Pyre of Denethor". This chapter takes place simultaneously with Chapter 6. Denethor commits suicide by burning himself on his pyre, but Gandalf (as whom you play) manages to save Faramir (who becomes Steward of Gondor after his father's death). It is revealed that Denethor has a palantír, which he used to communicate with Sauron, who warped his mind and drove him to despair (as symbolised by the Nazgûl, who was not literally present in the book). It is possible to retrieve the palantír from the flames without getting clipped by the Nazgûl if your timing is perfect.

BOOK V, CHAPTER 8: "The Houses of Healing". Aragorn (as whom you play in this room) doesn't want to claim his kingship of Gondor before Frodo's mission is completed, but he heals Faramir, Éowyn and Merry using the herb athelas ("the hands of the king are the hands of a healer"). Collect the leaves of athelas from the Houses of Healing. Precise jumping is needed to complete this room.

BOOK V, CHAPTER 9: "The Last Debate". Gandalf counsels that Sauron cannot be defeated by arms, but that they should march to Mordor with war, in order to distract Sauron's attention away from the Ring-bearer (Sauron does not know where the Ring is; for all he knows, they could have it in Minas Tirith). The fly is a reference to the comment of Prince Imrahil of Dol Amroth at the end of the chapter, that Sauron might crush their army like a fly that tries to sting him. You play as Legolas in this room, since I wanted to give him a turn at last! :-) Take the exit on the upper left to get back through the Houses of Healing.

BOOK V, CHAPTER 10: "The Black Gate Opens". And so the army of the Free Peoples marches to the main gate of Mordor (c.f. Book IV, Chapter 3). They are met by the Mouth of Sauron (a man who speaks on behalf of the Dark Lord himself). He claims that Frodo has been captured, and shows them the gear that the orcs took from Frodo in Cirith Ungol. He offers to release Frodo if they promise never to assail Sauron in arms again, and give the lands around the Great River to Sauron. Gandalf rejects these terms, and the forces of Mordor pour out of the Black Gate to attack them.


BOOK VI, CHAPTER 1: "The Tower of Cirith Ungol". The orcs have imprisoned Frodo in the tower of Cirith Ungol, just inside Mordor. Sam must take the irrevocable step into Mordor and rescue Frodo. You enter and exit the tower via awkward jumps through wall blocks (in lieu of the Watchers in the book, who could hold you with their will). Frodo is right at the top of the tower, accessible via a ladder. You get back down again via innocent-looking blocks. You must put on orc-gear as a disguise - it /is/ possible to collect the items without sacrificing a life if you use the technique of jumping through an overhead wall block from right to left when you jump up to get them. Note the 'ghost conveyor' effect, as discovered by Philip Bee and first seen in JSW Ivy.

BOOK VI, CHAPTER 2: "The Land of Shadow". Frodo and Sam travel through Mordor on their way to Mount Doom. It is too dangerous to make a bee-line for Mount Doom (east across the plain of Gorgoroth), so they initially go north towards Udûn. Surprisingly, they find light and water (the items). They also encounter enormous thorns growing in Mordor, and a pack of orcs. The skull and the cyan Nazgûl (well, black and hence invisible would have exceeded even my threshold of unfairness! ;-) ) are my own artistic licence. I should issue a health warning about this room: the first time I played it, it reduced me to a shuddering wreck in twenty minutes! :->

BOOK VI, CHAPTER 3: "Mount Doom". Frodo and Sam finally arrive at Orodruin, the mountain of fire in which the One Ring was forged. They find Gollum waiting for them at the Cracks of Doom. This room is the equivalent of "The Bathroom" in the original Jet Set Willy. You had better enter this room having already collected 255 items, otherwise you've narked it! Gollum will collect the 256th and final item himself: the Ring with Frodo's finger thrust through it. In the book, Frodo puts on the Ring, but Gollum bites it off, finger and all, and falls into the fire with it, thus destroying the ring. The closest approximation I can manage (without you playing as Gollum in this room, which I did not want to do) is for Frodo to fall into the fire (which corresponds to the toilet in the original JSW) himself, after collecting all the items and completing the game as in the following rooms...

BONUS ROOM: "The Lord of the Rings". Frodo visits Barad-dûr, the Dark Tower of Sauron, who takes the shape of a giant red eye. This never happened in the book, but this extra room corresponds to "Master Bedroom" in the original Jet Set Willy, and Sauron corresponds to Maria. If all 256 items have been collected, Sauron disappears and you can go through and complete the game. Before you can do that, however, you must cross the rooms which correspond to the chapters after Book VI Chapter 3. If you do so successfully, you will reenter this room on the left and be carried to the completion of the game. Not quite faithful to the plot of the book, I know, but I had to map it to the plot of Jet Set Willy somehow, and it gives you an extra little challenge before you complete the quest! :-)

BOOK VI, CHAPTER 4: "The Field of Cormallen". Frodo and Sam (after being rescued from Mordor by eagles in the book - why didn't they just have an eagle fly the Ring to Mount Doom?) are honoured on the Field of Cormallen, where they meet up with the other surviving members of the company. Don't loiter in this room or Legolas and Pippin will crash into each other and kill you! The gap in the right wall is for getting back to the bonus room, "The Lord of the Rings", at the very end of the game.

BOOK VI, CHAPTER 5: "The Steward and the King". Aragorn (as whom you play here) is crowned King Elessar of Gondor, and enters Minas Tirith. The two guardians are Faramir and Éowyn, who fall in love with each other while recuperating in Minas Tirith. Faramir (now Steward of Gondor) is created Prince of Ithilien. Aragorn marries Arwen, having finally fulfilled Elrond's conditions for his daughter's hand in marriage!

BOOK VI, CHAPTER 6: "Many Partings". Treebeard tells the Company that he has let Saruman go, because he can't bear to keep living things locked up. On the road home, they cross paths with Saruman, now a beggar in the wilderness, who hints at trouble in the Shire. The chapter ends in Rivendell, where they are reunited with Bilbo. Watch out for the arrow when you enter this room!

BOOK VI, CHAPTER 7: "Homeward Bound". The hobbits and Gandalf revisit The Prancing Pony in Bree, and learn from Butterbur that there is trouble in the Shire. The hobbits go back to the Shire without Gandalf, who knows that they are now capable of sorting out the problem on their own.

BOOK VI, CHAPTER 8: "The Scouring of the Shire". The hobbits find the Shire overrun with ruffians, and when they get to Bag End they find Saruman and Wormtongue there. As his revenge on the hobbits, Saruman has ruined the Shire, filling it with oppressive rules and eyesores. Hence this room is deliberately badly-designed, with garish colours, the paper colours of the blocks don't agree with the background colour, Saruman is a dull-on-bright guardian, the ramp graphic is the wrong way round and the room is littered with ugly attribute-255 static nasties. There are two alternative ways to do this room: it's easier to enter from the top-right, but you can also enter from the bottom-right if you feel like an extra challenge! :-)

BOOK VI, CHAPTER 9: "The Grey Havens". Weary of Middle-earth, Frodo goes to the Grey Havens. Together with Gandalf, Elrond, Galadriel (the bearers of the Three Rings for the Elves) and Bilbo, he sails to the Undying Lands. This room draws heavily on "The Yacht" in the original Jet Set Willy. Only after you have set sail will you be able to reach the left edge of "The Lord of the Rings" and complete the game.
